These Reports Allege Trump Has Deep Ties To Russia - BuzzFeed News
Have you seen BuzzFeed English?
Check it out
Buzzfeed
news
News
Videos
Quizzes
Tasty
Nifty
More
BuzzFeed Community
Make A Post!
SECTIONS
Animals
Audio
Big Stories
Books
Business
Buzz
Celebrity
Community
Entertainment
Food
Geeky
Health
LGBT
Life
Music
Parents
Podcasts
Politics
Puzzles
Reader
Rewind
Science
Shopping
Sports
Style
Tech
Travel
Weddings
World
Advertise
Jobs
Mobile
Newsletters
Shop
US Edition
US Edition
UK Edition
Australia
Brasil
Canada
Deutschland
España
Español
France
India
Japan
México
About
Press
RSS
Privacy
User Terms
Ad Choices
Help
Contact
© 2017 BuzzFeed, Inc
Made in NY
Get Our News App
NEW POST
MY PROFILEMY POSTS0
MY DRAFTSMY DRAFTS
MY DASHBOARDDASHBOARD
SWITCH USERFEEDS/USERS
SETTINGS
SIGN OUT
NEW POST
MY PROFILEMY POSTS0
MY DRAFTSMY DRAFTS
MY DASHBOARDDASHBOARD
SWITCH USERFEEDS/USERS
SETTINGS
SIGN OUT
Can You Tell Which Circle Is In Front?
Only People With Perfect Color Vision Can See These…
A 21-Year-Old Has Inspired People To Share Photos…
Promoted
Sponsored
→
I Shared Taiwanese Food With My Co-Workers
Do You Like Your Crush More Than Your Crush Likes…
Here’s What Breakfast Looks Like In 28 Countries…
These Panda Carers Wear Scary, Pee-Soaked Costumes…
11 Of The Most Satisfying Feelings
Build A Sandwich And We’ll Accurately Guess Your…
Your Post Has Been Launched!
Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.
TOP POST
VIEWS
These Reports Allege Trump Has Deep Ties To Russia
A dossier, compiled by a person who has claimed to be a former British intelligence official, alleges Russia has compromising information on Trump. The allegations are unverified, and the report contains errors.
Ken Bensinger
BuzzFeed News Reporter
Miriam Elder
BuzzFeed News World Editor
Mark Schoofs
BuzzFeed News Investigations Editor
View this image ›
Drew Angerer / Getty Images
ID: 10302602
A dossier making explosive — but unverified — allegations that the Russian government has been “cultivating, supporting and assisting” President-elect Donald Trump for years and gained compromising information about him has been circulating among elected officials, intelligence agents, and journalists for weeks.The dossier, which is a collection of memos written over a period of months, includes specific, unverified, and potentially unverifiable allegations of contact between Trump aides and Russian operatives, and graphic claims of sexual acts documented by the Russians. BuzzFeed News reporters in the US and Europe have been investigating various alleged facts in the dossier but have not verified or falsified them. CNN reported Tuesday that a two-page synopsis of the report was given to President Obama and Trump.Now BuzzFeed News is publishing the full document so that Americans can make up their own minds about allegations about the president-elect that have circulated at the highest levels of the US government.The document was prepared for political opponents of Trump by a person who is understood to be a former British intelligence agent. It is not just unconfirmed: It includes some clear errors. The report misspells the name of one company, “Alpha Group,” throughout. It is Alfa Group. The report says the settlement of Barvikha, outside Moscow, is “reserved for the residences of the top leadership and their close associates.” It is not reserved for anyone, and it is also populated by the very wealthy.The Trump administration’s transition team did not immediately respond to BuzzFeed News’ request for comment. However, the president-elect’s attorney, Michael Cohen, told Mic that the allegations were absolutely false.“It’s so ridiculous on so many levels,” he said. “Clearly, the person who created this did so from their imagination or did so hoping that the liberal media would run with this fake story for whatever rationale they might have.”And Trump shot back against the reports a short time later on Twitter.
FAKE NEWS - A TOTAL POLITICAL WITCH HUNT!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
ID: 10302576
His former campaign manager and current senior White House adviser, Kellyanne Conway, also denied the claims during an appearance on Late Night With Seth Meyers, adding that “nothing has been confirmed.” She also said Trump was “not aware” of any briefing on the matter.The documents have circulated for months and acquired a kind of legendary status among journalists, lawmakers, and intelligence officials who have seen them. Mother Jones writer David Corn referred to the documents in a late October column.Harry Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson tweeted Tuesday that the former Senate Democratic leader had seen the documents before writing a public letter to FBI Director James Comey about Trump’s ties to Russia. And CNN reported Tuesday that Arizona Republican John McCain gave a “full copy” of the memos to Comey on Dec. 9, but that the FBI already had copies of many of the memos.If you have tips related to this story, write us at trumpstories@buzzfeed.com. To send us information confidentially, go here.Read the report here:
View this embed ›
ID: 10301944
Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com!
Ken Bensinger is an investigative reporter for BuzzFeed News and is based in Los Angeles. His secure PGP fingerprint is 97CC 6E32 10A2 23FE 4E84 98B4 9CFF 4214 9D26 8AA7
Contact Ken Bensinger at ken.bensinger@buzzfeed.com.
Miriam Elder is the world editor for BuzzFeed News and is based in New York. Her secure PGP fingerprint is 5B5F EC17 C20B C11F 226D 3EBE 6205 F92F AC14 DCB1
Contact Miriam Elder at miriam.elder@buzzfeed.com.
Pulitzer-prize winner Mark Schoofs is the investigations and projects editor for BuzzFeed News. While working at The Village Voice, Schoofs won the
2000 Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting for his series on AIDS in Africa.
Contact Mark Schoofs at mark.schoofs@buzzfeed.com.
Got a confidential tip?
Submit it here.
More ▾
Facebook Conversations
Next On News›
Meet The 17-Year-Old Leading The Trans Student Rights...
Next On News›
The Dangers Facing Trans Women Of Color In 2017
I know, right? Will your friends agree?
Share this Link
These Reports Allege Trump Has Deep Ties To Russia
https://www.buzzfeed.com/kenbensinger/these-rep...
A dossier, compiled by a person who has claimed to be a former British intelligence official, all...
Your link was successfully shared!
Promoted by
BuzzFeed Staff
Sponsored
Tagged:donald trump, russia, viral
Facebook Conversations
Promoted
Promoted by
BuzzFeed Staff
Sponsored
In The News Today
All eyes are on the Balkans as the restive region struggles with a fading EU, the arrival of the Trump administration, and the rise of Russia.Meals on Wheels has been flooded with donations since Trump unveiled his proposed budget, which slashes some food programs.Legendary musician and rock and roll pioneer Chuck Berry has died at 90. He was known for hits like "Johnny B. Goode."Drake finally premiered his new playlist 'More Life' on Apple Music's Beats 1 radio and people are shook 😂🎤
Download the BuzzFeed News app
How Donald Trump’s Enemies Fell For A Billion-Dollar Hoax
by Ken Bensinger
Connect With
USNews
Like Us On Facebook
Follow Us On Twitter
News moves fast. Keep up with the BuzzFeed News daily email.
More News
Trump’s Critics Are Letting The Bigger Russia Story Slide
A Murder In Berkeley Gave The Far-Right Its Perfect Perp
The Man Who Taught Donald Trump To Pit Gay People Against Immigrants
The Softening Of Kellyanne Conway
A Wall Divides Latin America — But Not The One You’re Thinking Of
The Far Right’s Most Common Memes Explained For Normal People
This Student’s Secret Abortion Shows Why Thousands Of Irish Women Will Strike Next Week
Nashville’s Last Taboo? Country Music Stars Are Tiptoeing Around Trump
Here’s What Parental Leave Is Really Like Around The World
Egypt’s Feared Spy Agency Has Hired Some DC Lobbyists To Clean Up Its Image
More News
Now Buzzing
Here’s What Breakfast Looks Like In 28 Countries Around The World
These Panda Carers Wear Scary, Pee-Soaked Costumes But It’s For A Good Cause
Promoted
Sponsored
Do You Like Your Crush More Than Your Crush Likes You?
11 Of The Most Satisfying Feelings
Promoted
Sponsored
Only People With Perfect Color Vision Can See These Fruits Accurately
Can You Tell Which Circle Is In Front?
A 21-Year-Old Has Inspired People To Share Photos Of "Vicious Pit Bull Attacks" And, Wow, So Scary
Build A Sandwich And We’ll Accurately Guess Your Height
13 Reasons The Canada Student Loans Website Is Complete Garbage
Your Sex Preferences Will Tell You What Canadian Adventure To Go On This Summer
More Buzz
advertise
jobs
mobile
newsletter
Shop
US Edition
US Edition
UK Edition
Australia
Brasil
Canada
Deutschland
España
Español
France
India
Japan
México
about
press
RSS
privacy
user terms
ad Choices
Help
Contact
© 2017
BuzzFeed, Inc
Crop Image ×
Upload an Image
Crop Image
Are These Thumbnails Okay?
×
Choose a new image
Save
Save Thumbnails
Preview Thumbnails
I know, right? Will your friends agree?
Close
Cancel
#{img_n_width}x#{img_n_height}
Email this to a friend
Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.
Please enter the CAT-CHA
Catcha question...
Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive.
Your email has been sent!
Thanks for sharing! You should sign up for our Usnews newsletter!
7x per week
No thanks
Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.
Great! You'll get your first email soon.
Share This Link
Report an Issue
Drag to highlight one or more parts of the screen.
Cancel
Next
What should we know about this issue?
Back
Next
Thanks!
We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at
Done
Sadly, an error occured while sending your feedback. Please contact bugs@buzzfeed.com
to let us know.
OK